---
title: Privacy without the hassle
tags: [privacy, security]
categories: [privacy]
---
I care about my online privacy. However, I also care about being able to use my computer without being a 1337 h@xx0r.
There are a lot of ways to improve online privacy, and I've tried a whole lot of them over the past years. 
Some are good, some are bad, and a lot are in between. Here's what I learned.

This isn't a perfect solution, and your approach will probably be different depending on how much you value your privacy compared to usability of your computer. You might want more privacy, or less, and that's okay.

## Lesson one: Don't make it too difficult

There was a time where I thought that privacy was the most important thing about using my computer. 
I stopped using many popular programs, and installed so many addons and security programs that it had become a game against myself.
All this stuff was making it difficult to browse websites that I neede daily, and so I started whitelisting some things on those sites to make them work properly. 
This started building a new habbit of just disabling all the protections whenever anything was annoying me, and in the end I thought that I was doing very well because I was using a lot of privacy addons, but in the end they were all disabled so it was a false sense of security.

Realizing this taught me an important lesson, that I'm sure many people already knew: <b>The primary vulnerability in a system is usually the human.</b>

I figured that privacy was nice, but not at the cost of usability. Because if privacy does get in the way too much, I just start turning off the protections.
Therefore, I think it would be better to find a middle ground; secure enough to make me feel at ease, while not annoying me daily.

## Lesson two: Quantify the privacy gains

It's easy to underestimate just how much of a difference some small changes can make. 
Many privacy tools have some sort of reporting feature that shows what they did in the past days. 
This may not directly improve privacy, but it does remind you of what a big difference it makes to care about privacy a bit.

# OK, so what do I actually use?

The two lessons above are the most important things I've learned on my way to online privacy. 
There are many more lessons, but I don't think they're interesting to list right now. 
Instead, I'd like to write about what I currently do to improve my online privacy.
I'll try to list these items by how much work they are to setup, and how annoying they are. Easiest items first.

## 0. Stop using Facebook
God I hate Facebook. That a leech on society that provides no value while sucking its users dry.

"But I talk to my friends on Facebook messenger" ok, then switch to a different messaging app.

"But how will I know what my friends are up to?" do you really need to? Since deleting my Facebook account I never felt the need to return. Instead, you could message them and have a conversation.

Facebook has specialized in tracking you everywhere, and knows exactly what to show you to keep you coming back. 
I don't think that a single company should control so much of the internet and I'm worried about how they keep acquiring new companies to futher their reach. 
It wouldn't surprise me if they mess up Oculus so much that it would be impossible to use without getting Facebook services pushed in your face at every opportunity.

## 1. Use an ad blocker
This is easy, fast, and makes a huge difference. 
Most advertising companies (Google, Facebook, Twitter, etc) make money by knowing stuff about you. A lot of stuff.
The more they know about you, the better they can target advertisements (at least so they claim, I disagree). 
They will usually come with some crap reason for why consumers should like this; such as better matching advertisements to your interests.
However, I don't think advertisements ever improve my browsing experience, especially not when they creepily remind me of a product I looked at two months ago.

I like [uBlock Origin](https://ublockorigin.com/). It's easy to use and blocks most annoying ads. 
There are plenty of other ad blockers out there if you want to look around.

[Privacy Badger](https://privacybadger.org/) is also nice. I don't think it explicitly blocks ads, but it does remove other trackers very effectively.

##2. Switch browsers
You're probably using Chrome. Most people are. 
Chrome is a nice browser, don't get me wrong. I just don't think that the world's largest advertising company should also get to control how I access the web.

I use Firefox instead. Sure, it's still owned by a large company that would probably love to take some of my data and sell it for a profit, but at least it's not Google (I like spreading my risk). If you're very dedicated to privacy, use Tor. 

Tor is a great browser for privacy, but the way it routes your requests will slow down your browsing significantly. 
Many sites will straight-out block Tor traffic and Google's reCaptcha isn't a huge fan either.

##3. Use container tabs
Firefox has a thing it calls "[Multi-Account Containers](https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/kb/containers)" (I'm sure other browsers have something similar). 
Using multi-account containers (which I'll just call containers for now) can separate different activities in a way that makes it much more difficult for trackers to follow you around. 
In a nutshell, containers separate your browser storage so that cookies from one container don't follow you around in other containers. 
It's also possible to automatically open sites in a specific container so you don't actually mix them.

For example, I've got a container for Facebook (I don't have an account, but unfortunately some information isn't available anywhere other than in some Facebook groups). 
That way, I can login to my fake Facebook account to read stuff on there, and then not have to worry about it tracking me around when I'm just browsing the web normally.

This is also very useful for separating work and personal accounts. Simply add a container for work, and then you can visit sites that you use both personally and for work without having to logout and login all the time.



